- gRPC supports both the blocking
and asynchronous calls
but further to that
there are four types of gRPC calls
that you can work with
when you use this framework.
The first one is Unary RPC.
In this case,
the client sends out a single request
and the server comes back with a single response.
Let us quickly see how this works.
Let's say you have a Go gRPC client.
The client first makes an RPC call to the server
with the necessary request metadata
like authentication details.
The server gets notified of the call
and if everything is okay,
the connection is set up.
Once a connection is established
the client sends out
the request to the server.
The server receives it,
processes it
and prepares a response.
If the status of the response is okay
then the client receives it.
And the call thus gets completed.
A simple example of a Unary RPC call
is when you log into your shopping website
and try to view your profile.
When you click on the view profile button
the client can send out a single request
containing the username
and the server
can come back with a single response
containing the user details
corresponding to the username.
The second type of call that you can make
is a client streaming RPC call.
This works very similar to Unary,
except that in this
the client can stream a sequence of messages
rather than a single message
to the server site.
The client can also send an end of stream flag
to mark the end of all the messages
that it sends out.
The server in the meantime
will read all the messages
from the client.
Will process them
and respond
in a single response.
Along with the trailing metadata.
An example of this is
when the client wants to send huge amounts of data,
like in case of website tracking
or uploading huge files.
So the client can send out those huge files
in a sequence of messages.
And the server can finally come back with a response
saying that it has received the file,
and that will be a single response.
The third type of a call
is the Server Streaming RPC.
Now as the word suggest
this will involve the server streaming
a sequence of messages.
So the client sends out a single request
but the server will send out a stream of messages.
The communication will end
when the server sends out the trailing metadata.
And example of this is
when a user on a shopping website
is trying to search for products
by entering a keyword.
When the user clicks on the search button,
the server can then send a stream of results
matching the search criteria.
The fourth type of call
is the Bidirectional streaming RPC call.
In this case,
both the client and the server
can send a stream of messages between them.
The client sends an end of stream flag
to mark the end of messages that it sends out.
And the server completes the streaming
by sending trailing metadata.
An example of this could be
incremental searches for products
where the client sends a stream of messages
for every set of characters
that the user is typing.
And the server sends a stream of messages
for all the search results.
As a part of this course.
We're only going to play around
with the Unary RPC call.
When we develop the services,
we using the Java programming language.